Purpose: The art lane's next round, phase 1 (T2.3a.4, A6.1): GPT's first pass at the stones and rocks in Blender, hearth stones, tent-ring stones, boulders, limestone blocks fallen from the cliff, and scree, which code scatters and stacks by recipe. The art lane then checks every part, looks at each on its preview sheet and fixes what is wrong.
Script: rocks.py
Output: rocks.blend
Input files: tools/art/kit.py tools/art/kitmath.py tools/art/partcheck.py
Input script: none
Prompt:
You are making the stones and rocks for a game set in the Stone Age, about 12,000 years ago: a camp under a limestone cliff by a river, its hearth ringed with river cobbles, its tents held down by rings of stones, boulders on the bank, blocks fallen from the cliff and scree at its foot. The game draws a sharp 3D world whose every surface wears a pixel-art texture of 64 texture pixels a metre. Every shape is a part made in Blender; code places parts by recipe, turning, scaling a little and colouring each by its seed, so a few dozen shapes make every stone in a camp. Each part must be right in itself: real size, its texture laid on it, its joint and its material slot.

Write rocks.py, a Blender 4.0 script that builds every part below with the helper module kit.py in this folder, and saves rocks.blend. First read kit.py and kitmath.py in full: their docstrings say what each function does and which rules it keeps for you. Start rocks.py with:

import math, os, random, sys
sys.path.insert(0, os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)))
import kit

then kit.start(), the parts, and kit.finish(sys.argv[-1]). Build each stone's shape with hull() (the convex hull of points you choose, rounded by `rounds` of subdivision or left angular, its underside flattened by flat_base so it rests), or with mesh() for a shape a hull cannot make (a block with a notch); then rest() to stand it on its origin, and project("stone") to lay its texture, each face from the direction it faces, as the rule for stone is. Then its joint base at the origin, towards -z. Give each part its group (a Blender collection) and an "about" sentence saying what it is and its size. Use random.Random with a fixed seed for each stone, so the file comes out the same each time and no two stones of a kind look alike.

Rules every part keeps:
- Real size in metres, z up. Its origin at the middle of its underside, where it rests (rest() does this).
- One material slot, role stone.
- Texture stretch at most 1.5:1 on every triangle; project() keeps it under 1.13, so only a shape with degenerate slivers can fail: avoid needle-thin triangles.
- Polygon counts by size: about 100 to 300 triangles for a cobble (each round of hull() makes four triangles of one, so start from 8 to 14 points), 150 to 400 for a boulder or a block, 20 to 60 for a scree stone. Set each part's smooth angle (p.smooth, in degrees): 60 for water-worn cobbles, which read as rounded; 30 for angular rock, whose edges stay hard.

The parts:

Group "hearth" — hearth_stone_a to hearth_stone_f: six water-worn river cobbles that ring a hearth, of hard pale rock (quartzite or granite), smooth and rounded: 18 to 30 cm long, 12 to 20 cm wide, 8 to 14 cm tall; each a different egg, loaf or flattened shape, a few with one flatter face or a slightly squared end; flattened just enough underneath to rest. Make them from points spread over an ellipsoid with a little noise, then hull() with rounds=2.

Group "ring" — ring_stone_a to ring_stone_f: six heavier stones that weigh down a tent's edge, gathered from the river bank and the cliff foot: 25 to 45 cm long, 18 to 30 cm wide, 12 to 25 cm tall; less rounded than the cobbles (subangular: some flat faces and blunted edges), each a different blocky or wedge shape; hull() of irregular points with rounds=1.

Group "boulders" — boulder_a to boulder_c: three boulders on the bank, 0.6, 1.0 and 1.5 m long, about two-thirds as wide and half as tall: subangular and weathered, with broad gently curved faces, one or two flatter sides, and rounded edges; hull() of points with rounds=1, flattened underneath where they sit into the ground.

Group "cliff" — cliff_piece_a to cliff_piece_c: three blocks of limestone fallen from the cliff, 1.5, 2.2 and 3.0 m long: limestone lies in beds and breaks along joints at near right angles, so each block is slab-like and angular, with a nearly flat top and bottom (bedding planes, tilted a few degrees as it fell), steep broken sides that meet at near right angles, chipped and bevelled corners, and one side a little stepped where a thinner bed broke away. Make each from points on a box with its corners and edges cut irregularly (hull() with rounds=0), or with mesh() where you want the step; their height about a third to a half of their length.

Group "scree" — scree_a to scree_f: six angular stones from the scree at the cliff's foot, 5 to 25 cm long: sharp-edged flattish chips and slabs of limestone, each a few broken faces (hull() of 7 to 12 points, rounds=0), lying flat.

When rocks.py runs without an error and saves rocks.blend, run the check:
blender -b rocks.blend --python partcheck.py -- --report rocks-stretch.txt
Every part must print "pass". If any fails, fix rocks.py, run it again and check again until all pass.

Stone Age truth: natural stones only, as found: water-worn cobbles, field and bank stones, limestone blocks and scree; no cut, dressed or squared masonry, no worked stone.
